# capital-markets-of-the-world

##Introduction##

At its outset, the Capital Markets of the World project was conceived as a historical investigation in what could be called the ‘information system(s)’ that have been responsible for the production and dissemination of price-sensitive stock-exchange information. Its tenet was derived from practical concerns related to the consultation and interpretation of a collection of multi-market financial information gathered by the Crédit Lyonnais Service des Etudes Financières, and currently hosted by the Graduate Institute, Geneva (hereafter referred to as ‘the Collection’; cf. infra). Over time, the regular, yet initially ‘naive’, use of these primary materials bred an ethnological awareness of informative differences that are typically sterilized or even erased in the conventional practice of extracting lists of data from primary sources.

In the first place, this led the project's principal investigators to seek to develop a vocabulary and methodology to make sense of geographically and temporally distinct institutional set-ups of the production of financial information. By means of several case-studies, they aim to show how these set-ups of information production and dissemination can be related to specific modes of information consumption. This very attention to the multiplicity of exchanges and price production soon led to a reassessment of the *historical* and *material* (!) mediation of financial information. Put simply, is the common practice of data extraction not insufficient, or even misguided? In yet other words, is the traditional distinction between data collection and knowledge production not to be considered obsolete? The principal investigators contend that this is indeed the case, and therefore proceed in an almost inverse fashion. Seen through our ethno-historiographical lense, data are not to be extracted from their historical and material environments, but are to be introduced as they were gathered, structured, and formulated in these respective historical environments. Feeding research conclusions back into the historical ‘raw material’ has the important advantage of closing the gap between theory, empirical research, and, ultimately, the curation of the Collection. 

This is where the Capital Market of the World Github pages come into play. Drawing on the joint expertise of historians and information scientists, a main pillar of the project is the construction of a smart catalog in order to be able to mine the ‘deep structure’ of the information being buried here. True to the project’s strong ethno-historiographic inspiration, the catalog will allow the exploration of the rationales behind the historical structuring of the information, in order to gain insights for further theoretical and historiographical development. Typical elements of such catalog, apart from conventional [Library of Congress Subject Headings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_of_Congress_Subject_Headings), include: an item-by-item list of keywords (‘tags’) as they appear in the original primary source, together with a 21st century ‘transcription’ of the latter’s meaning, a description of the contracts underlying the transactions at the time, (if possible and/or deemed relevant) the identity of the members of the board of a given listed company, and their connections to politics or certain social groups, and so on. 

##The Collection##
Inherited by the Graduate Institute in 2008 from the Crédit Agricole, which had received it from the Crédit Lyonnais after the merger between the two banks in 2002, the collection represents the preserved part of a once gigantic collection of economic and financial information gathered by the Crédit Lyonnais Service des Etudes Financières, created in 1871. Owing to difficulties of preservation —it had been stored stored in a former textile factory in Tourcoing in northern France, where it experienced damage from humidity— most of the collection was lost. Two major parts, however, survived. One is  the vast store of government budgets from countries over the world, which was sorted out through cooperation of EHESS and the University of Paris XII, under supervision of Professors Broder and Flandreau, and transferred to the Centre Technique du Livre, a state run library repository in France. The other is the collection of stock exchange publications which the Graduate Institute acquired from Crédit Agricole in 2008. 

Covering stock exchange information for 6 continents, the repository could be said to be Thoreau’s figurative “Columbus to whole new continents and worlds within (…), opening new channels (…) of thought.” Over 500 linear meters and counting, the collection covers an immense stock of information concerning the world of finance in the age of globalization.  High frequency quotation records from 68 stock exchanges from 41 countries constitute the main component of the collection. They bring to life the complexity of Stock Exchange trading, underscoring the multiplicity of exchanges: several for each country, sometimes several for one market, and occasionally (as for a rare series of prices for gold mines), one market for several cities —as was the case for South African Gold Mines options traded simultaneously over the counter in Paris and London, and for which one Hirsch, a bullion broker in London and Paris produced a price list.　The most complete series, such as London, New York, Brussels, or Amsterdam cover over 100 years of stock exchange quotations. More exotic or rare series, such as Bilbao, Alexandria or Cairo have shorter time frames but are still complete.  This stock (no pun intended) of information offers a very rare opportunity for a better understanding of the world of capitalism and finance as it opens up a transnational dimension, beyond the well-researched operation of individual markets. It discloses the entangled spatial logics of capital raising, trading and the global architecture of financial information.

##An Interdisciplinary Project##
Confident that it is both possible and desirable (!) to close the divide between the ‘producers’ of data and its ‘end-users’, this project proposes a research-intensive ‘open-source’ approach towards information and knowledge that is inherently multidisciplinary. The above-described practice of feeding back theoretical insights into the urgent curational effort (sometimes dubbed an [‘ethnographic sandwich’](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/9781118325513.ch6/summary)) factually does away with the separation of the roles of the archivist, the librarian and the financial historian. Bottom line is the fact that the meaningful (i.e. sustainable and user-friendly) curating of the Collection, in terms of both data structure and searchability, presupposes an understanding of the ‘money article’ that is identical to the understanding of the students/researchers of the financial information system as identified in our research plan. Although the research outcomes of the researcher and the archivist/librarian remain, strictly speaking, distinct, their methodologies and research objectives are the same; it is therefore instrumental for both to inform each other of progress and (practical and/or theoretical) hurdles in carrying out respective project tasks.
